{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh14960\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Understand basic data communication concepts\

\b0 \ulnone A network is a group of computers or devices that are all linked together to they can also exchange data. Each of the devices will have a unique address which they will use to make the connection. \
The standard data network is your typically set up where data will be sent across a network using cables either or a local area network or wide area network for a more wide scale area. However this is different from a telephony network which involves using electrical signals to transport data between two or more points. However some businesses still use a telephone exchange which involves sending all calls into the business into an exchange board which will then route the output to wherever it needs to go.\
\

\b \ul Understand the role of networking hardware, and configure common hardware for operation\

\b0 \ulnone The first hardware connection device used is a router which is used to determine how packets are forwarded to their destination. A router basically connects one or more networks together. After this is a hub which allows several devices to connect to the network by broadcasting out data. You can either connect to the network by using wires or going completely wireless. Another device which can be used is a switch which is similar to a hub but uses MAC addresses of devices to make the connection only if the device has requested certain data packets. A network interface card enables computers and laptops to make a connection with the network and is plugged directly into the motherboard of a computer. Network software is software used to manage and monitor computer networks and this can be for either home use or up to larger corparations. There are several different types of cables used such as Unshielded Twister Pair, Shielded Twisted Pair, Coaxial Cable and also Fibre Optic Cable which is one of the best to use. Static routing is where the user will have to enter routes into the devices routing table using the configuration file. Dynamic routing is where all the routes are entered by using a piece of software. The idea of dynamic routing is that the routing device learns the destination of all the information. An interior protocol basically works out a path between all the routers that you have and then keeps track of all the data that has been moved. An exterior protocol is the movement of data outside of your network which defines your connections to the internet. Using TCP/IP there are several parameters that need to be configured when you are setting up your network such as the Host Name, DHCP Client is a client/server protocol which assigns an IP address to the IP host, a Domain Name, IP Address which is a string of numbers to identify a computer and a Broadcast Address. A public IP address is the standard address which is issued by your internet provider and the private IP address is an IP address given to your device by the router. \
\
\

\b \ul Understand the quality elements of project management\

\b0 \ulnone Whenever a business makes a sale there is a high chance they will have some form of technical system working in the background for example a payment system. The payment will be taken through some form of API which has to stay constantly running in order to keep the business on track. Essentially if the business is unable to take payments for their goods and services then this means that the company will not be able to make any sales as well which shows how technical systems can relate to overall business concerns. \
\

\b \ul Be able to use Rapid Website Development Tools\

\b0 \ulnone A mobile application is a application installed onto a device which will provide some form of functionality to benefit the user such as gaming, business or even transportation. The idea of having the application installed on the users phone is so the user can use it when and if they need it. A mobile website differs from this as it is essentially the same communication window as a normal website but it has been optimised to be easily read and interpreted by the user. A mobile website is all about getting a message through to the consumer about your product or even an event. \
\
\

\b \ul Be able to use different types of web search engines\

\b0 \ulnone A primary resource is information that has been directly obtained from the user in order to be used for a certain purpose. A Secondary resource is information that has been obtained second hand from someone else such as a book or listening to recorded tapes. An index is a collaboration of all the resources that have been collected with reference to where they were sourced from.\
\

\b \ul Be able to manage essential issues in developing and maintaining a website\

\b0 \ulnone Pre launch site testing is all to do with making sure that the website is all ready to go. You need to make sure that the design and layout has no flaws so whenever it goes live you do not have to make an expensive changes as time goes on. The fonts, colours, image etc must all be perfect and work with each other in order to produce an effective site. There are also several different browsers available to be used on the internet so it is important that they work on all of them in order to increase the customer base on your site. As well as browser there are several different devices that can be used to view your website ranging from very small devices such as a phone right up to very large computer monitors. After you have sorted how your website looks you will then perform a functionality test which is making sure that your website will not only look good but perform how it was meant to perform.\
\
\

\b \ul Be able to analyse website performance issues\

\b0 \ulnone Whenever I was going through my website I had to perform several functionality tests in order to make sure that my website was doing the job it was meant to do. On the entry page I have a form which will post the title, user and content of my logs to a mysql database using AJAX, PHP and Javascript which I believe has performed perfectly and does exactly what it needs to. The form will take all the contents of my new logs and without actually refreshing the page will post the data straight away to be read by the database. There is another form on my website which is on the Help page that will allow the user to post feedback about the website or even request help. Currently once the user fills in this form with all their details it will send me an email with all the information they enter so I believe this formed exactly how it was meant to. The overall idea of this website was to allow me to post in my logs about my daily work and NVQ so they could be viewed by assessors, as well as show off demonstrations covering all the code I used throughout my project and I believe I have achieved this perfectly. I would like to hope the loading of my website would like to be around 600ms for each page with the exception of slightly higher load times for pages with high quality images and lots of information. \
\
\
\
\
\
\

\b \ul Be able to use wireless networks\

\b0 \ulnone Ad-hoc which is also peer to peer mode which refers to two or more pcs being connected together and then sharing their resources out between each other. These computers do not need to go back to the initial server to form a connection. The opposite of this would be infrastructure mode which is where all of the devices will communicate with each other by making a connection with the server using an Access Point and this can be either wired or wireless. Cloud computing is becoming more and more popular as time goes on because instead of having local server all the data is stored and process on the internet. This comes at the great advantage of increased storage of data by using a virtual storage service. However this can leave you more open to your data being breached as it will be stored over the internet and this is essentially a front door for hackers to get to your information. Many phones such as the iPhone have things such as photo stream which will storage all your photos instantly on your cloud storage however there have been several events of peoples phone being hacked into this way. There is also a great saving in cost as in relation to phones you will not have to spend extra money on memory cards that only have limited space on them. The price for online storage will be relatively low in comparison to purchasing large sized memory cards. The wireless access point(WAP) is an actual bit of hardware from which wireless and wired devices can connect to using WiFi or ethernet. The antennae will send out a signal to be connected wirelessly or you can use an ethernet cable to connect wired.   \
\
\
\
\
}