{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 A relational database is a database which is structured to recognise relationships between stored items of information in a database. The are organised into a set of formal tables from which data can be accessed or reassembled in many different ways without having to reorganise the database tables. There is a big different between what a relational database and what a non relational database is.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 A relational database will be linked through the use of a key and as previously said will have a formal structure which allows data to be processed with the corresponding tables and then returned to the user. A Non relational database is different in the way that it has a more informal and unstructured store which whenever more data is added can be expanded freely. This allows for more back end flexibility and makes it much easier for the user to use due to the rate of speed it retrieves data at.\u8232 \u8232 There are several different types of relationships between tables such as one to one, one to many and finally many to many. A one to one relationship basically defines when each row in one database is linked 1 to 1 with a row in another table. In a one to many relationship each row in the table can be related to many rows in another table. This refers to a save once use many times in other tables.\u8232 \u8232 Finally in a many to many relationship one or more rows in a table can be related to either 0, 1 or many rows within another table. The final database concept we learned about was SQL and the purpose it held in querying databases. SQL is essentially a programming language that revolves around databases and the rules and criteria that come with.\u8232 \u8232 SQL is very powerful and can turn a very simple system into a more complex and dynamic one capable of storing data and referring to it as well. Some examples of database vendors include mySql, Oracle, MySql Server, Redis and MongoDB.
\f1 \
}