{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15260\viewh15120\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 There are several different types graphic file formats that can be used when designing a web page each of which have different uses and benefits. There are several main formats used for graphics and images and they are PNG, JPEG, GIF, SVG. The graphics can have lossy compression or lossless compression. Lossy compression is reduces a file by permanently eliminating certain information especially redundant information. In lossless compression every bit of data remain after the file has been uncompressed. PNG-24 is a lossless format with large colour palette that supports transparency while PNG-8 is also lossless with a limited colour palette which was designed to replace GIFs. However JPEG is a lossy format with a large colour palette of up to 16.7 million colours. GIF is lossless format with a limited colour palette that also supports transparency and animation. SVG is a vector based format which means the images are made up of shapes and lines that use mathematical formulas to create them. However Raster based graphics create the image using pixels. \
\
After this we looked at how we would create images using a graphics creation package such as CorelDraw or Serif. After you have selected a graphics package and decided whether you are going to use a graphics drawing package or whether you are going to just edit a photograph normally. Once you have selected which way you are going to do it then you will create layers, add styles or choose any way you would like to edit the photos. Once you have created the image fully you can then save it to be either used on your web page or wherever else that you decided to use it. \
\
Stock photographs are photographs of certain situations, places and tasks that have been photographed for others to use at a fee. This are a lot cheaper than getting the photos taken professional when they will be fit for purpose most of the time however not all these photos are relevant are some can be never used. Stock photos will only save you money if you do not have photography equipment at your disposable because amateur photographs may suit your site just fine. in my opinion a lot of stock photos are irrelevant and will not suit majority of businesses that need photographs for their websites therefore a more professional approach would be better. \
\
Most websites have photo management strategies in place on their websites meaning that whenever they go to use photos for certain web pages they will search the files for each separate categories. For example all different formats like jpegs, gifs etc would be placed into their separate folders so they are very easily accessible and it makes the file management system a lot more cleaner.\
\
On the next section of our NVQ we looked at what exactly the colour safe pallet can be defined as. These are 216 colours that set the standard across mac and pc that are used by the majority of browsers. There are then 40 reserved colours that makes exactly 256 web colours that can be used. Colours can be used in several different ways on web pages which can greatly effect the appeal to a website. The colours can be used to make someone have a different feel on their mood, make the website more readable, make certain text stand out more than others or even have colours which fall into the browser safe pallet. It is very important when designing your website that you consider all these aspects so that your website will be more appealing to users and people will actually want to use your site. In different cultures colours have different significance therefore when designing your website you should look at your target audience and what country they may be from and choose the colours all around that. \
\
After this we learnt about the ways elements in your html can be styled by CSS. This can be done several ways throughout your elements such as inline, embedded and linked using a stylesheet. The inline way to apply style is when you apply your styling tags to your html element which can be useless in the short term but for many style applications it can be quite messy. There is also the way of using is embedded styling which is when all the style tags are added separately at the top of the html page and they are then reference by their name or their id. The finally way to apply style of CSS is by linking it through an external stylesheet file which is then linked to the main html file by a link tag. This is widely used by most developers as it is the easiest and most professional way to clean up your code. \
\
Finally to finish off this section on web diagram and design we looked at the challenges that designers and developers will face when designing web sites for mobile devices. There a tools on which you can use in order to try and make the designing of mobile device software a lot easier however it can be quite difficult to do majority of the work. You will have to focus on working in your code to work with certain items such as touch screen or other items such as the accelerometer for the iPhone. Finally you will have to look at optimising the content on your page so it can load faster over mobile network if the user is currently not connected to the main network. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}