{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14480\viewh14880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Project Management is all about using processes, methods, knowledge, skills and overall experience in order to achieve the finished project and all the objectives that need to be met. It is making sure that you are able to work out the time, money and resources that are needed to complete a project and make sure you do the best you can not to deviate from the initial plan. The key elements of the project triangle are Time, Cost and Scope which all play on each other because if one of them begins to increase then others may begin to increase over time which will affect the project in the long run. A needs analysis is essentially an analysation of the market and also the customer needs to see how the market is currently as well as what the customer needs. \
\
Project scope is how much work that will need to be undertaken to complete all the necessary project requirements. You will constantly refer back to the requirements stated at the beginning of your project and from there decide whether or not it is in scope and if it isn\'92t then you shouldn\'92t be doing it. Whenever the user requests something to be added to the system and you decide that it seems ok to undertake it is then added to the project which is then defined as scope creep.\
\
Project management software allows the user to use scheduling tools to determine the progress of your project and allow you to see if you are on time or whether you are behind on certain aspects of your project. A cross functional team is basically groups that are made up of people from different areas within the company in order to create a fully functional system. In reference to IT this would be people specialising in different areas of IT such as design, development, back and front end. Some ares of an IT project are project manager, systems analyst, systems developer, application developer, engineers and testers. No one person can do all these roles so in order to have a fully functional team you need people from different roles.\
\
Information flow is basically how information should pass from one point to another within a business. The general flow of information in a business is that it goes from the top to the bottom but as it makes its way down it may hit certain restrictions meaning only certain people is able to view the information. As the IT department begin to work on their project they should report back to higher management which will enable them to make decisions regarding the business and how it is performing at that time. They will have control of the budget and may influence the time so they will make decisions with regards to all their work.\
\
A statement of work is basically a record of the work that the IT team will undertake over the entire project. A statement of work is a clear and concise structure that enables any stakeholder to understand it and make any decisions on how they feel about the project. It is always important to refer back to a statement of work from time to time and then check it against the actual project to see if you are on track or not. \
\
Whenever you undertake a project you have to consider any implications of the technical decisions that you might make. The new system you design and development may work perfectly but it may be undertaken by the wrong department so the system is not being used to its full potential. It is also important that when you are developing the system to not add any extra functionality along the way so you do not compromise the overall workload and budget constraints. Technical changes such as increased functionality and any extra bits to the system will only add extra time and money on to the project with wages and technical resources. Whenever developing a system there will be a great cost involved it and the return on investment is basically will the system pay for itself and after how long will this happen. It will all depend on what the new system actually does that will decide the overall return on investment and if the system goes smoothly when it is being development to not have an increased budget constraint. \
\
Documentation is very important when developing a system as it allows you over time to see if you stuck to your initial plan and also identify any possible issues that you met along the way so next time you are developing another system or similar you can not come into the same issues. This documentation is very important when it comes to the end as you and upper management can have a full review at the end of it and make decisions whether the team are able to undertake a larger project later. \
\
There can be many technical issues when developing a system and this could be any number of things from a certain computer system failing or a part of the server failing which will increase the strain on the budget if it hasn\'92t already been strained enough. This is a more large scale problem and a smaller scale problem would be something like a user not being assigned their log in details correctly which is a general concern for the business that is not the highest importance. \
\
Quality management is overseeing all activities and tasks that are being undertaken and make sure that they maintain a desired level of excellence. Quality management should be watched by the IT team so when it gets to the customer they will get the best possible product that they deserve as they are paying for the system. If the customers are satisfied then the chance of repeat business greatly increases over time. Risks occur from time to time when doing projects so it is important to monitor these risks and if something does happen then it is important that it is logged correctly to not encounter any problems down the line.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
 \
\
}