{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14140\viewh15160\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 The next section of our logs we looked at web design and development careers that are available to people who are interested in the IT sector. The IT sector is constantly changing so it is imperative that you stay up to date with all the latest technologies as technology moves so fast and new things are being discovered everyday. If you plan to be a ahead of the game in IT you must be constantly researching and keeping your employees up to date through constant training. There are many different roles that can be undertaken by IT employees and we talked through several of them. \
\
The first job we looked at was a web analyst. A web analyst will essentially trouble shoot the website they are working on as well as the business and look at ways they could possibly improve the overall performance.  They look at the company themselves as well as the competition in order to make adjustments to be on top. They will use calculations and percentages in order to give a better view of how much traffic or problems the website faces over a time period and after this they will present it to management to show them where they are going right or wrong. \
\
The next job we looked at was a website manager who is the person responsible for deciding what information is placed on the company website. Usually the website managers will have experience in writing content as well as have knowledge of website design so that they can better decide exactly what to do with the content they have. Obviously being the manager you will take the lead role in deciding what happens with the site and you will be in charge of interacting with potential clients and partners and present exactly what has been created.\
\
The next job we looked at was a Database Administrator who is responsible for the performance, integrity and security of a database. Also they will be involved in the planning and development of the database as well as troubleshoot and report any issues they may have. They will be responsible for monitoring user access and security to the database. Everything to do with the database from how it runs all the way down to who enters the system will be dealt with by them as this is very important to the integrity and security of the system. \
\
After this we looked at a server administrator who has the responsibility of managing and monitoring the performance of the computer servers in a company\'92s data centre. On a daily basis it will be their job to ensure that the system and network runs smoothly and efficiently without any downtime or performance degradation. Maintaining software and security updates, monitoring server activity and ensuring availability or client server applications and overall general security will be several of their daily tasks. A lot of these are performed throughout the day but a lot of them are performed at the weekend and evenings to prevent downtime at peak times. \
\
\
The next job was a Help Desk technician who are there to diagnose and solve software and hardware problems for computer users in an office type environment or any computer based environment. A decent knowledge of computer systems and good customer service skills will secure you a job in this field which will allow you to build on your skills and progress along the career ladder. You will be doing general fixing and service of computers and the software behind them as they is considered quite a low level job in comparison to others however it can allow you to get your foot through the door. \
\
After this we looked at a web marketing manager who is someone who deals with creating and implementing inline marketing strategies to increase sales and revenue for a company. They will design and create a campaign which will aim to make the business more successful by drawing in more users. It is important to have good knowledge in IT but also have more knowledge of marketing and communications which have been joined in with a business style field. \
\
The next job we looked at is a mobile web application developer who is a developer that specialises in developing applications for mobile devices such as Apple, Android and Windows Phone. Most mobile application developers will have roots in web application but be able to integrate their coding into utilising the unique features that mobile devices offer such as touch screen, force touch or gaming apps may integrate the accelerometer. They will have to be very proficient in their code writing skills as each application for each devices may be written in different languages and styles so reusability will be extremely hard. \
\
The finally job we looked at was a PC and mobile repair technician which are people who will diagnose problems with PCs and mobiles and repair them for a fee. A lot of the time it will be screens for phones and for computers it could be anything from infected hard drives to broken internal components that may need replaced. This is quite a low level job which requires little experience to enter and is commonly a very low paid job however it can be a start for some people to enter the it industry as it will give them valuable experience about computer systems or mobiles. \
\
There is a difference between a web architect and a web application developer as they make work in the same company they may perform different roles. The web architect has the job of designing and making out plans for what the web site will look like and work out how each part of the website and system will work together. Although they will have some skill they will not be as intelligent about programming when it comes to a web application developer. A web developer will take all the plans from the web architect and then implement it into an actual system to make it fully functional. \
\
Finally at the top of the hierarchal structure is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Chief Operations Officer (COO) who both have names sounding similar but are in charge of different bits of the business. They are responsible for the overall company and they must work out how to steer the busy in the direction decided by the board of directors. This is a very high level job deciding everything to do with the business. The COO however specifies his jobs to individual departments and how they are run on a daily basis. \
\
The security manger of a business will oversee all of the operations of all the security solutions through taking charge of all the organisations security analysts. They will also deal with all the policies regarding security within the business as well as the training that needs to be handed out to put everyone on the same page. The security manager is also expected to report back to the higher levels of authority within the business. However this job differs to the job of being a security analyst or a consultant. The security analyst has the responsibility of maintaining the whole security and integrity of the data flowing in and out of the business. Data integrity can be defined as the accuracy and consistency of the data stored within a businesses data stores. The analyst must train others on the steps they must be to stay safe online and within the business and they must also work along side higher authority to achieve the highest levels of security. After all this has been completed they have to keep all records of the security information which will detail how their hardware and software systems are kept secure. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
   }