{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12240\viewh14960\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Currently the largest web based client side programming language that is most commonly used by programmers is Javascript. One of the more popular frameworks that comes along with javascript is JQuery which enables the user to utilise the speed and utility of this client side language. Several other languages are used along side Javascript such as HTML which works as the design for a webpage while the Javascript works as the moving parts of the site. \
\
Some of the more popular server side programming languages include Javascript but also C#, PHP and Ruby on Rails. Javascript is an event driven language which means that the flow of executions are determined by events that could be things such as user input or even messages between programs. The others are procedural which means that the statements that are executed are structured into procedures or functions. \
\
After this we looked at describing common gateway interface methods which are GET and POST. GET essentially gets its input from an environmental variable such as a http request which then goes to the web server. POST gets the input from a standard input and then uses this to send data via http to the web server. These are the more common gateway interface methods however there are others such as PUT, DELETE and PATCH. \
\
\
Next we discovered database connectivity technologies which are used to connect other systems to database servers. One of the database technologies we looked at was SQL which has many different variations that refer to database connections and they are Oracle, SQL Server and MySql which we have had a lot of experience working with and making it connect up correctly with a working system. Open Database Connectivity is an interface which uses programming language in order to access data from a variety of database systems such as SQL. \
\
The two tier architecture model is when the user interface runs on the client and where the database is stored on the server. The application itself will either run on the client or the server. After this we looked at n tier architecture which states there has to be at least 1 server in order to process the data but it also introduces a middle layer which is known as the application layer. There are many advantages to implementing an n-tier architecture such as increased reliability, performance, accessibility and overall security. \
\
There are a lot of costs associated with developing, placing and maintaining your own server for general use. The first main cost would be the actual purchase of the server itself or whether you decide to have it leased which in the long run would be more expensive. Once the server is up and running it will need to be constantly maintained which if you are proficient enough you can do but you will have to spend a large portion of your time doing it. If the server has been leased out form elsewhere then it will have to be maintained by the seller but at a fee which overtime will mount up to a large amount of money. Once the physical server is in place you will then need to buy and install software onto the server which again will take time and money to do so. After this comes the overall set up of systems and server settings that need to be perfect to utilise the full potential of you server so this will again cost you more money.\
\
After this we looked at the costs associate with cloud service providers who offer the infrastructure, software and platform in relation to cloud computing. The initial set up and connection of the cloud server can be costly as you will have to have a decent internet connection which is also charged at a monthly fee along with servicing to the cloud service. All of these costs add up but in my opinion a cloud service is far superior in comparison to the standard rack server. \
\
Dedicated Hosting is when a server is devoted to a single organisation or for a single use or purpose such as a website. This is different from co-location which is where the server is stored usually off site in what is known as a colocation centre where the space must be rented out. The customer will already own the server and all they will have to rent out is the physical storage space. A virtual server is a server/web server that shares resources with other virtual servers. Instead of having several computers for several servers there will just be one computer running several virtual servers. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}