{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14140\viewh15140\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 On this section of our NVQ we covered Web Diagram and Design covering many aspects of webpages and history of the web.  In 1989 Tim Berners Lee first inverted the Web by creating HTML as its first publishing language. He also came up with the concept of HTML tags on the the Standard Generalised Markup Language (SGML) which became the base for a lot of languages to be based on. The most up to date version of HTML is version 5.0 and like most of the HTML version uses the same tags with newer ones added in to increase the overall functionality of the language. There are several other versions of HTML such as HTML 3.2, HTML 4.01 and XHTML. XHTML is Extensible Hypertext Markup Language which is essentially like HTML except the users can invent their own set of mark up for whatever purpose they desire as long as everyone uses it. New elements and attributes can be defined and added to those that already exist enabling the user to create and embed new content for web pages.  A key thing to remember about XHTML is that it is very strict as it must have certain elements added to the code as well as have the DOCTYPE correctly added. \
\
After this we got to the theory behind the Document Object Model, and its relationship to dynamic HTML, as we had previously completed it in a practical session which was used to add functionality to our websites and project. The Document Object Model is defined by W3C as \'93A platform and a language-neutral interface that allows programs and scripts to dynamically access and update the content, structure and style of a document.\'94. This allows programmers to create and build documents, navigate their structure as well as make changes to elements and content. this is referred to as dynamic HTML.\
\
After this we discussed the importance of sticking to standards and in relation to web developing we looked at adhering to the W3C standard. If the page adheres to certain w3 standards then it is more likely whenever the website has been searched for that it will be more desirable in the way it is portrayed. The w3 standard allows developers who are making websites to optimise their page rendering in order to make their pages load a lot quicker and make the website more appealing to users. Finally the w3 standards will cover you for more than 1 browser so that the user is not tied down to just one browser which increases flexibility. \
\
After this we learnt of how you can utilise a web browser into being an application delivery platform effectively. A web browser is able to render all the necessary components of a normal application therefore a browser can be used as a more wide scale form of delivery. Since web browsers were originally designed to display static , page structured documents therefore it is not surprising that it is an ideal environment for desktop style applications. The utilisation of forms and data submission can be used as input which can be connected to a database. \
\
In order to check if you are compliant with all government and industry standards you may place all of your code or your site into an accessibility checker using a validator. However if you are complying to standards which are adhered by your employer you must keep consistent throughout in order to maintain high standards. A employer may adapt a certain type of bootstrap framework and the way that they design their pages  may be completely different from others.\
\
XML is extensible markup language which was design to store and transport data so it could be read and interpreted by humans and computerised systems. XML store data in plain text format therefore the storage can be independent to the system and platform that you are on so your data can be dealt with easier by terms of exportation, importation and simple movements. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}