{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15140\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 The first part of the internet services we looked at was the use of Boolean operators with regards to programming practices and these include AND, OR, NOT which can also be used as && , || or !. Using the AND operator would only let the user do some if they meet both requirements that have been placed, the OR operator can perform the output if the input meets either of the requirements have been set and the ! operator essentially means that if they don\'92t meet the requirements perform the output action. It is also possible to use boolean operators when using search engines as it allows the user to refine exactly what they are looking for or even what combination of words they are looking for. The idea of using keywords is to narrow down exactly what topic or content of what you are reading on a website actually is. This is all used as effective help in the searching for all types of content on websites or media pages. \
\
Search engines are webpages that are used to search for other web pages and content all over the internet. Search engines are pages such as google.com, yahoo.com or bing.com. A web portal is essentially an access point for information or different sources of media from all across the world wide web. A good example of this would be Yahoo, MSN or older portals such as netVibes and AOL. Web pages are usually personalised to suit the company or organisation they are based around as the they will only contain information about the topic they are specific to. For example BBC news will have certain web pages to talk about the news for different locations. A meta search engine is a search engine that will take the results from several other search engines then use an algorithm to combine them all and present to you the best results based on the popular searches. This is used to optimise web searching for the user and provide the best possible output for them. A good example of a meta search engine is Dogpile.\
\
A spider is a program built so that when it visits websites and other pages it will read the information and content in order to create entires for a search engine index. Spiders are typically programmed to visit websites that have been submitted by their owners as new sites or updated sites and they will do several sites in one go and that is how they got the name spider. The information will then be used to place a ranking on the website which can be decided at what point it is shown to the user. It is important to make the pictures on your website have alternative text to increase the chance of being ranked higher using a spider bot. \
\
After this we distinguished between authoritative peer reviewed and open peer reviewed sources which overall is an assessment of information which is put on the internet. Authoritative peer reviews are when a group of people are selected to review the paper or source and then must provide feedback without disclosing who actually gave the feedback. However the opposite is whenever open peer review is used and the peer group how more freedom to fully disclose their feedback and information to anyone who wants to view it. After this we looked at the different levels of resources that you can look at and these are Primary and Secondary as well as their indexes. Primary resources are when the information or data is obtained straight from the user on the front end of things. This can be achieved through interviews or formal/informal conversation with the direct user. Secondary resources however are very different in the way that they are reports and summaries of the main primary results. This is essentially taking the primary results and then turning them into interpretable summaries that everyone can understand. \
 \
\

\b Advantages and Disadvantages of using Cookies
\b0 \
\

\b Advantages
\b0 										                        
\b Disadvantages
\b0 \
Continuity and personalisation to the user				                        User may not want particular data stored\
User has option to disable cookies						                        Cookies are stored as a text file so insecure\
Allow for effective marketing							                        Cookies are limited in size and number\
\
\
Caching is where an area of computers memory is devoted to temporarily storing recently used information. This means once it is stored then the next times that it is accessed it the speed will increase significantly because it will not have to search for all the necessary files and the efficiency and performance will be increased. The idea of caching works only if the initial resources and files are not changed because if they are then the files have to be recached and stored all over again. However once you have the files perfectly where you want them to be and do not change them then caching can be used to achieve better performance. It is also possible for the resources to get lost on route which in turn can several affect the overall performance of your system and this causes slower run times.\
\
 After this we learnt about Proxy configuration and how it can be updated through the network settings of your operating system. Whenever a proxy or a proxy server is set up it basically acts as another computer which serves as a hub for all your internet requests to be processed through. Proxies are used for things such as filtering web content, providing anonymity when surfing the internet and one of the more popular ones which is being used as a restriction to go around internet blocks such as Netflix in other countries. Caching can be used along side a proxy server if the request is repeated so it can obtain the information over and over again. \
\
Calendar and scheduling software is used to remind the user of tasks that they must achieve and what exactly is the timescale they must follow. Many of these bits of software can be linked to other devices such as mobile phones or now smart watches which will alert the user on the go. There are several tools for doing this such as Microsoft Outlook, IOS calendar and contacts and also Google Calendar. These can be very powerful when linked up to all of your devices at the same time to make sure that all tasks are completed in time. \
\
After this we looked at Peer to Peer services which is essentially a link between one or more users directly which eliminates the need for transfer servers in the middle. A good example of a peer to peer service is uTorrent. After this we looked at the privacy concerns that can be involved when connecting to a network which regardless of whether they are local or remote there are still internet communications involved. Data can be transferred either encrypted or non-encrypted which will define the level of security on your data. It can be a big concern to the user whether or not their data is safe as it being transferred across the internet so it is important to take great care as to what you are sending to each other. \
\

\b Advantages and Disadvantages of using text messaging and SMS
\b0 \
\

\b Advantages
\b0 										                        
\b Disadvantages
\b0 \
Multi-platform 										                        Restricted number of characters\
Fast and efficient transfer of information					                        Infrastructure required\
Information directed at specific users					                        Can be perceived as informal\
\
It is also possible to user mass email services to send short messages out to more than one user at time which is useful for schools or large businesses to communicate to people on a very large scale basis. This can be used as an update to subscription services or if it is a school to send out updates to parents about whether or not the school is closed on a certain day.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}