{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16160\viewh14900\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 There are several different types of email services the first one being MIME which is Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions which sets the internet standard that allows email to support text in a character set other than ASCII, attachments such as audio, video and other media types as well as multiple bodies in the message with multiple associated parts. Most emails world wide and sent in an via SMTP but use the MIME formatting standard. S/MIME is essentially the same as MIME but whenever they are transmitted they are able to be encrypted and they will also allow you to digitally sign them. PGP refers to Pretty Good Privacy which is also an encryption program that provides not only privacy authentication for forms of data communication. PGP is also used for digital signing and encryption for text, emails and even files which greatly increases the security of email communication. \
\
Business signatures are usually placed in the footer of emails that are sent out and contain useful information about the person who is sending the email. They normally include their name, business title, company and their phone number. This is all useless in a business situation so that the person receiving the emails know exactly who they are talking to and how to get in contact them if they would like more personally communication with them. It is good practice to include all these items but try to refrain my placing your email and silly items of text that take up unnecessary space. \
\
An email thread is where all of the emails exchange between two people are arranged in a list one after another. They are arranged in a chronological fashion starting from when the other person first replies going up to their most recent replies. This is very useful as it allows the users to remember exactly what they were talking about from start to finish and can refer back to key points very easily. Therefore the level of communication is greatly increased as well as the the level of redundancy being very limited due to the readers focusing on the important parts of the discussion. An email thread may be important when it comes to discussing highly important topics that require each user to refer back to a lot of the points they made previously. \
\
BCC or Blind Carbon Copying is essentially used to send an email to several different email users but preventing certain people from seeing other emails. This could be used to hide more secure email names or to hide who is actually receiving their information to the end user. \
\
Replying to an email requires starting a fresh email which is making a response based on what the other user had sent over. This is completely different to forwarding an email as when an email is forwarded the email that was previously sent is now sent on to if they want the same user or else can be sent on to someone else. In the workplace emails are used to communicate between colleagues about daily work and in these emails text or media can be added to update the employees what has to be achieved for the day or if there are any meetings that need to be completed on that day. Emails should be concise and to the point and not contain reams of text that would make it impossible to read. If need be you can add media elements to reinforce what exactly is being said in the text which is very useful in an office based environment. There however can be issues that pop up with the use of email in the workplace and this could involve things such as an email leak where highly sensitive emails get leaked into the workplace which may expose certain users or premature release details on business dealings. This could be from a hacker breaking into email accounts or simple mistakes such as sending an email to the wrong address which could cause a lot of problems for the sender. Another problem with email is that it may not fully explain things to the end user and this could force endless emails to be sent back and forth where it could be easily sorted with a small conversation. \
\
Certain business environments are more suited to certain forms of communication than others and this all depends on how the business is run and what kind of technology they are more used to. If the business is a more formal type of business that is spread over a large area where employees have their own work station then email will be more suited to them as the users should always be at their desk to receive them. However as businesses are rapidly become more modernised and people are moving away from the typical sit behind a desk all day lifestyle then communication such as instant messaging or even text messaging may be more appropriate. This will allow them to be on the move more often but still answering their phones or tablets with important information relating to the business. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
 }