{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12760\viewh14880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 A Peer to Peer network connection can be defined as connected computer who are sharing resources and information. There is no formal connection for the users so they have to remember exactly where the shared resources are kept in order to access them correctly. After this we looked at server based network connections where the server is the central location and all of the resources are shared across the network. The backup of information is also streamlined as they will not have to search around several machines in order to locate all the information. Users will also access all this information by using a username and password which has been allocated to them. After this we looked at distributed architecture and distributed computer. Distributed architecture is where components communicate through the use of a network and they are hosted on different platforms. They can have a client server, which is where the server listens for requests from the client and when they do get one they process the request and then sent it back to the client. Next they can have a tiered architecture where the client and the main business system will be connected and the business will be connected all the way back to the main system in order to process data. Finally came the peer to peer network connection where the the roles of the client and the server will switch back and forward between components. Distributed computing is a model where components of a software system are shared among multiple computers so they can improve the efficiency and performance of said system. \
\
\
After this we looked at several different types of network connections with the first being local area networks (LAN) and the second being wide area networks (WAN). A local area network is a group of computers or devices that are all connected together using the same communication line or wireless link to the server. This type of connection is used within a small area such as an office type environment and they share common resources such as a printer. Next we looked at a wide area network (WAN) which consists of two or more local area networks connected together. The connection is usually routed through a telephone system or even satellites in order to perform daily network functions and the largest LAN known is the internet. \
\
The Open Systems Interconnection Model reference model is the reference model to show in a layered approach how applications are able to connect over a network. The use of this layered approach better reinforces how the different layers work with each other and what exactly happens at each level. The seven different layers are:\
\
- 
\b Physical
\b0 : This layer defines the physical hardware level such as cables, cards and physical parts.\
- 
\b Data Link
\b0 : This is the level where data packets and encoded and decoded into bits.\
- 
\b Network
\b0 : This level provides switching and routing technologies such as data transmission from node to node. \
- 
\b Transport
\b0 : The actual transport of data between end systems and this will be responsible for errors in the data transfer.\
- 
\b Session
\b0 : This is the layer where the connection gets established, managed and eventually terminated within the application.\
- 
\b Presentation
\b0 : This layer works on making the data acceptable to be read by the application layer so it formats it and then sends it out across the network. \
- 
\b Application
\b0 : This layer provides all the file transfer, email and network software services.\
\
Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) is the communication language or protocol of the internet. Whenever you first get internet access you gain the TCP/IP program which is used to connect to other computers who have the TCP/IP program as well. Network topologies refer to the layout of the network and how each of the network nodes are connected with each other. There are several different types of topologies such as Mesh, Star, Bus, Ring and Tree. The Mesh topology is where every node is connected to every other node in the network which can turn out to be very expensive and the level of redundancy is very high. The next is a Star topology where all devices on the network are connected to a central computer or hub and the nodes have to pass information back to the central location before it can be processed. If one of the nodes fail then the rest of the network can continue completely unaffected without any disruptions but if the central computer fails then the entire network will come down. The next network topology is the bus topology is where the main bus is the central cable that connects all the devices on a local area network. On this topology you simply need to add a cable on to the main line in order to add on another computer however if there is a break in the main wire then the problem can be very difficult to identify where the problem is. The Ring topology is also a LAN but it is laid out in a ring where the nodes are connected in a closed loop. Messages travel around the ring through the use of a token to send and receive these messages. The finally topology we looked at was the Tree Topology which combines the bus and star topologies together in order to connect all the star topologies along a tree line. This is a great choice for computer networks who are dividing off their departments into separate parts to work with. However if the central hub fails for this network then the entire network will go down and be unable to be used. \
\
The Network Operations Centre is a central hub for monitoring and maintaining a communications network. This will generally be a room within the main business where they will have computers set up in order to provide detailed analysis about the network situation. IPv4 is used to identify devices on a network through an addressing system which uses 2 to the power of 32 which is over 4 billion addresses. Since there are so many IPs being allocated the new IPv6 has started to be rolled out. IPv6 has greatly increased the number of hosts that can be connected and also has increased the amount of data that can be transmitted across the internet. There are billions of IP address assigned to each individual device making each device that has an IP unique but since they are running out there are now IPv6 which assigns more devices more unique IPs. \
\
Static routing is where routes are manually entered into the device routing table so that when the device loads up the configuration will load up as well. This can either be done yourself or you can send all the information to the network admin who will deal with all the requests. This is the very basic and manual way of doing things however there is a more complex way which is known as dynamic routing. Software applications are used to learn the routes to the networks that are connected to the devices. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
  \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}