{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13820\viewh15160\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Concatenation and addition both use the + symbol but they use it in very different ways to provide very different answers. The symbol when concatenating is used to simply make a join between two bits of data. For example if your input code showed (\'931 and 1 concatenated is \'93 +1+1); then the output would provide the answer of 1 and 1 concatenated is: 11. However when using the + operator is used within brackets in order to force the addition expression to happen first. For example if your input code reads (\'931 and 1 added: \'93 + (1+1)); then the output would be provided as 1 and 1 added is 2. There is a big difference between global and local variables in the overall ways that they are accessed in the program. A global variable is a variable that do not change and are used constantly throughout the program such as a  certain mathematical formula. Local variables however are typically used a single function or method meaning that the name for it can be used several times throughout the program. Local variables can also be removed from memory whenever they are not needed and only using local variables where possibles limits the amount of bugs. }