{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11380\viewh15140\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 An object with regards to programming concepts is a an element of a programme that represents a particular entity. It can be a variable a data structure or a function or method and as such is a location in memory having a value possibly referenced by an identifier. A property is essentially an object that can be assigned by a value.  A property is a special sort of a class member between a field and a method. A method is an encapsulated part of a programme that receives, processes and may return data. It is a procedure associated with a message and an object. Data is represented as properties of the object and behaviour as methods. \
\
Over the years javascript there have been various versions of javascript each with different functions and features that have been updated over the years. One of the most well known ones is JQuery which is a cross platform library designed to simplify the client side scripting of HTML. The way the syntax is used is meant to make it easier to navigate a document through the use of DOM elements, the creation of animations, the way it handles events and develop AJAX applications. Another version in the javascript framework library is which dealt with various functions for developing JavaScript applications.  One of the the features was the implementation of programming shortcuts to major functions such as XMLHttpRequest. There is also added support to classes and class based objects through library functions implemented in the framework. AngularJS is a complete JavsScript based open sourced front end web application framework mainly maintained by Google and by a community of individuals and corporations to address many of the challenges encountered in developing single page applications. \
\
The difference between client side and server side scripting depends on where the scripts are running and being executed from. If you are sending scripts to the browser to be run then it is client side however if the scripts are running behind the scenes from the server then they are server side.\
\
The idea of having your code properly formatted is imperative to making stand out more. This will make it easier for yourself and other programmers who are looking at your code to understand it in the way it is more consistent and placed in a logical manner. Writing your code in such a way that it can be used several times throughout your project will not only make things easier for you but it will make the time taking to complete the project become several decreased. Naming conventions is making sure that all items that require an ID have an ID fully attached to them so whenever it comes to referring back to them in later stages of development you will have less problems and less stress needed to give them all IDs later. The idea of commenting within code is good practice as it allows the programmer to remember what exactly a section of code does without having to look it up or try and remember from memory. This will also enable other developers to look at your code and understand it as well. Finally it is all about making your code perform complex functions but keeping the process very simple. If 100 lines of code can be written in 10 lines it makes it much easier for the overall aesthetics are functionality of the project. \
\
The Operating System of a machine will have elements of built in security such as firewalls and anti virus which aid the user in detection and prevention of security issues. The security software will manage the traffic of files into the computers hard drive and check them for potential threats against the system. However JavaScript security is the security that is placed on websites that is concerned with the scripts that are run when the website loads. \
\
The are many issues when it comes to keep your browser safe as they can come under fire from my different types of threats each will the sole purpose of destroying your system or getting your data. One of these is called cross site scripting which is a type of computer security vulnerability typically found in web applications. It enables attackers to inject client side scripts into the web pages in an attempt to gain control of the website and access controls if the website is not properly protected. Another type of attack is SQL injection which \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
refers to an injection attack wherein an attacker can execute malicious SQL statements that control a web application's database server.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  \
\
Finally we looked at signed scripts which is the process of adding a digital signature to a script so that the source executing the script can be authorised. A digital signature is the mathematical scheme for demonstrating the authenticity of a digital message or documents. \
\
Debugging javascript code is important to understand if there are going to be any problems with your system in the long run. You can use the console in an attempt to debug code as it will display errors in your system in which you can use to correct the main code. Another way to debug the code is isolate certain sections of code and run them all separately to see how they react on their own. \
\
There are several components used in effectively running a network server such as a motherboard, storage devices and also optical devices. The motherboard essentially holds all the processing power of the server with the CPU and the RAM used together to keep the server running quickly. The storage devices that the network server use and for basic storage of data either from databases or other types of data systems. Finally the optical disks are used for high levels of storage as well as the backups that may need to be completed.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}