{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15280\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 On the First day of our NVQ we created our first html webpage using a program called phpstorm. Once our main index.html page was created we use a very basic structure and also set the doctype. The doctype describes to the document the document type definition i.e a particular version of HTML. In the index.html we added several elements which includes a header, a paragraph, a table of contents and a link. The paragraph was defined with the p tags. The header was the largest size of header so it was defined as an h1 tag. The next addition was a table of contents which starts off with a table tag and using different tags can define rows, data and headings. The row is defined by tr, the data is defined by td and the table heading is th. The elements can then be styled either using inline styling which is by using the style attribute in html elements, internet styling which uses a style element in the head section and lastly external styling from a css file (cascading stylesheet). The method i opted for was to use an external stylesheet from which I could style all my items or give them tags to separate them. After this we created an audio file using the onboard microphone and converted it to .m3a and .ogg so it could be read by all devices. We then created an audio element using the audio tag and gave it full controls and no autoplay so the user could choose whether they listen to it or not. Once we completed all this we then optimised our site so it could be read from a lynx browser, by giving each of our link, picture and audio elements a textual secondary description. Once all this was completed we then had a fully functional index.html webpage. From here we could next add many features and expand to new html pages.}