{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14420\viewh15120\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 The next part of our NVQ is getting an understanding of different web browsers and their features and plug ins that come with. Firstly we looked at the functions and components of URN and URI which define the name and the location of a resource. The URN is the name of a resource for example using the mail to resource as mailto:example@email.com. The URL is the uniform resource locator which is the location of a resource which would be what you type into your search bar for example http://www.google.com. After this we looked at how to deal with pop ups and external window pop ups that can happen. A lot of these pop ups contain adverts with malicious intent that are out to either gain sensitive information or destroy your computer from the inside. Majority of browsers have internal blockers built in but you are also able to install external ones that will prevent pop ups and adverts from appearing on the webpages you visit. All of this can be found within the plug ins and preferences setting depending on what browser you are using. There are also pieces of software that can be used to prevent all these pop ups from appearing on your computer. \
\
Next we discussed the functions of SSL (Secure Sockets Layer), TLS (Transport Layer Security) and other encryption methods in securing communication for various protocols. Both SSL and TLS are used to transfer encrypted data by using a public key encryption method. There are several other protocols but one of the most common to appear with the two of them is PCT (Private Communications Technology). PCT is a protocol which is designed to provide privacy between two communicating applications such as a client and a server. Once a communication has been met then it will authenticate the server and if needed the client as well. All of these are used to securely send data as well as protocol data. \
\
The are several terms used when referring to network types and how you connect to the network. These are intranet, extranet and finally the internet which are refer to connecting to a network they are just performed in different ways and each have different accessible resources. The first one is an intranet which is an internal system and set of resources that is only accessible on the users network. This is very popular in schools as they use the very unpopular c2k system to access their network. The next was Extranet which is when a internal system is able to be accessed from outside of its own network. This allows people like clients or suppliers to be able to connect and communicate to you within a closed virtual space. Finally we looked at the internet which is where resources are publicly accessed from all over the world by anyone. All you need to go to the internet is an internet connection , a computer and a web browser. \
\
The internet and web clients can be used by anyone for their own gain but a lot of businesses can gain vital growth in their business by taking advantage of what the internet has to offer. Using the internet within a business allows them to work outside the constraints of a normal 9-5 working environment as they are able to sell or show off their goods 24/7 all over the world. They will eliminate the need for an office space by turning their business into an online virtual masterpiece. They are also able to use clients to communicate with other business partners or potential business partners remotely by holding online meetings and information sharing. The internet is a very powerful business asset that if used correctly can turn a 4 figure business into a 6 figure business in a very short space of time. \
\
A browser provides a UI in which the user can search the web and utilise all of what the internet has to offer. There are several different browsers out there for many different platforms and all of them offer different functionality. Some browsers are a lot faster than others in the way that they are optimised but others are better suited to suit the user even though they are slightly slower. In the end of it all it is all down to personal preference as to what browser you decide on. Some examples of browsers are Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Apples Safari. Most browsers also offer an anonymous/incognito which is essentially a form of browsing that does not store any of the browsing history or any data related to the browsing session. It is a common misconception that using incognito will prevent the user from being noticed from outside government bodies or hackers however this is not true as it will only deal with the browsing session. In order to access an anonymous browsing you would right click on the internet browser icon or go into settings to start a new session. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}