{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20540\viewh15640\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The second lesson of our NVQ revolved around adding styling as well as some transitional elements to the index.html page to make it look up to a high standard before we moved on to a new one. We began by adding a text effect to any html element. I choose the header and decided to add a b tag to make it stand out in bold. However you can choose italics or sub/superscript all by placing short tags around the word or sentence you would like to style it. It all depends on how much you would like your text to stand out. After this i applied a background colour to my index.html just to make everything stand out a bit better and give the webpage a bit more life. You can also change the background to an image if you would like but it is image to set the properties correctly so that it fills the entire screen. After that we can apply a border to an html element and that border can be dotted, dashed, hidden or several number of border styles. The border can also have many different styles of corners such as rounded. Next we added a hover element which means that whatever element we picked it would do a certain thing when you moused over it. It could change colour, expand, change transparency or anything that uses the hover tag. The next transformation that was added was a rotate and rotateY function to an element. This used along with the hover function means that when i moused over an a button of piece of text that element would rotate on an x and y axis. Finally we consolidated all of what we had placed in our html index.html file and sorted them into lists that could either be unordered or ordered. Within this we would then place buttons which we benefit us in the later stages of development. }