{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14320\viewh6520\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 On the 4th lesson of our NVQ we covered Client servers, protocols, the backbone of the internet, shared domains , cloud computing and RSS. Firstly we learned about client servers which uses a central server where many computers connect the internet or a network. The general hardware and software items we will need is a PC, a network card, a modem, a router and the initial internet browser. There are also several bandwidth technologies that can be used which are PSTN (public switch telephone network) , ISDN (integrated services digital network), and DSL (digital subscriber line). Next we learnt about several protocols which state how data is sent over the internet. \
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) defines how packets are created ready to be sent via IP and then put back together by the recipient. User Datagram Protocol (UDP) are essentially smaller packets without error checking. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is creating and sending email packets. Post Office Protocol Version 3 (POP3) is the receiving and checking end of email packets. Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) uses TCP/IP to transfer HTML and File Transfer Protocol (FTP) uses TCP/IP to transfer files. Next we learnt about the OSI model which is the Open Systems Interconnection which is a model that defines the networking framework to implement protocols in seven different layers. These layers are (bottom) Physical, Data Link, Network, Transport, Session, Presentation and Application. \
After this we learnt about the Internet Backbone which entails point presencing and Point connections. Point-to-Point (PPP) is a data link protocol used to establish a direct connection between two nodes. It can provide connection authentication , transmission and encryption. The internet backbone can therefore be described as principle data routes between large strategically interconnected computer networks and core router on the internet. These data routes are normally hosted by commercial, government and high capacity network centres. \
Next we looked over Domain Name System (DNS) which is a basically a phonebook for IP addresses using a general naming structure. \
\
Example-   	HTTP://WWW.EXAMPLE.COM\
					       name	        extension\
				     sub-domain\
				     prefix\
					        domain name\
\
Next we moved on to shared domains which uses the sub domain part of the address to use separate parts of a server that has been located via its domain name.  Cloud computing uses a network of remote servers hosted on the internet to store, manage and process data rather than a local server. \
\ul \
Pros\ulnone \
- Improved disaster recovery\
- Accessibility\
- Environmentally Friendly	\
\
\ul Cons\
\ulnone - Internet Connectivity Required\
- On-going costs\
- Security\
\
Finally we concluded with RSS which is really simple syndication. This is a standardised XML format that can be consumed by an aggregator which is essentially a reader. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}