{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15320\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 This lesson covered all the legislation that exists over misusing internet based forms of communication. The current legislation at the minute is very vague when it the major details. the 1988  Malicious Communication Act has had to be interpreted to including modern day forms of communication which includes tweets and messages. Trolling online can also be classified as a criminal offence in the modern era. In my opinion this is quite a lot of disparity between current legislation and what is considered ethical online. For example the current legislation does not fully cover laws between adults and minors online as it is very vague with several loop holes. Next we looked at the concept of a distributed workplace which is essentially enabling employees to make better use of the internet and mobile communications to better improve their quality of work. The of VoIP (Voice over internet protocols) and VoIP phones has enabled employees to make calls over the internet to other colleagues as well as host conference calls that means meetings can be attended from several different locations. The use of presencing or presence detection means that the company can keep tabs on each individual employee on their location as long as they agree to use the company provided handset. Next is mobile technology which \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is a technology that allows transmission of data, voice and video via a computer or any other wireless enabled device without having to be connected to a fixed physical link. This can come also be put in together with technologies like VoIP and the use of VoIP phone. We then discussed call/contact centres which are dedicated centres to take the calls of businesses and their employees as a first line of contact. Once the call has been received through a formal message tailored with the business in hand they will then check if the employee is available to take the call or not. Finally in a distributed workplace we learned about the conversion of voice to text technology which is fairly easy to understand and comprehend. This involves using a mircophone to speak to the device/computer and once the program has been properly set up it will then transfer onto the screen what you said in text. The system can be hard to use at times as it is difficult to train it to understand dialects and accents. \
\
The next section we covered looks at the uprising of social media and how it can be used to their advantage in terms of online presence. Social media can be defined as websites and applications that enable users to create and share content or to participate in social networking. An example of a social networking sites are Twitter which is essentially a form of communication site limited to 140 characters which steers the user towards short meaningful messages. Another example is YouTube which is a media sharing platform which allows viewers to either like/dislike or comment under each video giving their opinion on the video. Over the years this has exploded into a wide media platform where content creators have full time jobs producing videos and other content. Another way of communication over the internet is through the use of a blog which is a regularly updated website or web page, typically one run by an individual or small group, that is written in an informal or conversational style. It is essentially a journal or a diary by either a company or a person that can be read and interpreted by many. The main elements of a blog start with a basic title followed normally by the date and the person who wrote the blog. Within this there is usually sub headings and paragraphs/pictures that can be informative or just as diary purposes. A folksonomy is a system in which users apply public tags to online items, typically to aid them in re-finding these items.  Next we discussed the elements of a news feed service. This is a data format used for providing users with frequently updated content. A content provider publishes a web feed link on its site which users then register to the feed and will then be updated regularly with content.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
}