{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue0;\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15180\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 During this lesson we focused on the importance of keeping your network and computer properly maintained in order to prevent an problems further down the line. The first area we will look at is how we will secure our pcs and our servers to prevent them from attacks and if they are attacked how to deal with it. The easiest way to keep a computer up to secure is to keep it up to date allowing the computer to have all the necessary patches that it needs. After this the user should install an intruder detection which monitors for malicious activity as well as policy violations. After this it will be key to close an non essential network ports to prevent any unnecessary attacks. However if staff are well trained and vigilant as to what they are clicking on then they should have no problem to prevent any future attacks and keep the PCs/Servers secure. \
After this we looked over what exactly is the standard procedure if you do get attack and how you should take steps to deal with this. Once you notice an attack the most important thing to do is disconnect from the network as WORMs are able to travel across the network to other machines and viruses may leach onto other files. Once this has been done it is now time to act fast and identify where about the attack has come from and what type of an attack it is. If it is internal you should have already disconnected the machine from the network but if it is external you should begin to block the IP. If however it is a DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) which is essentially overloading the system with requests so that it unable to fulfil its main requests and keep up so it eventually goes down. This is very illegal with a maximum 10 years in prison. Once all prior checks have been done begin to back up data incase it gets worse or you are unable to stop it in time. If you have backed it all up this will be vital to stop future attacks as it may give you an insight as to how they entered the system so you can analysis the data and possibly make future changes. \
\
We then discussed what social engineering was and how we would take the necessary steps to prevent any of this happening in the future. A social engineer essentially try to make some believe they are someone else so they hand over confidential information about the business or another user. This can be used to gain access to the business system which can lead to future attacks and destruction either internally or externally. They may also claim to be someone else by stating certain information about your business which is just to lure you into giving them what they want. The best way to start avoiding this is to have a certain level of authentication or security questions that are specifically tailored to the user at hand. If you are contact by someone you could ring that so called persons home number to check legitimacy and this also works if you have been contacted by other companies looking to get information from you. Once you have been contacted by someone it is important to then adjust your security details to prevent someone from attempting to repeat the same action again with possibly better results for them. \
\
After this we began to look at different levels of encryption. These were split into symmetric and asymmetric encryption. Symmetric encryption \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
are algorithms for cryptography that use the same cryptographic keys for both encryption of plaintext and decryption of ciphertext. The keys may be identical or there may be a simple transformation to go between the two keys. Asymmetric Encryption is a form of Encryption where keys come in pairs. What one key encrypts, only the other can decrypt. The keys are interchangeable, in the sense that if key A encrypts a message, then B can decrypt it, and if key B encrypts a message, then key A can decrypt it. The big difference is that asymmetric algorithms use different keys for encryption and decryption. \
\
Next came authentication principles which break down how a user and the business is kept secure throughout the duration of their session. Each user will have their own account equipped with username and password that will also have extra secure features that include special keys and secure questions that only the user should know the answer to. Once they are in the system each user will have their own level of functionality within the system. For example will have access to a lot more controls than a standard employee would. This adds to the level of security so standard employees do not have free reign of a possible security risk. There are many ways in which a user can authenticate themselves to enter the system. They could use PIN or password along with a username which is unique to them if it was to enter a computerised system or if it was another type of system then the best thing to use may be biometrics which can use finger prints, voice prints, retina scans or even palm prints. \
\
After this we learnt about Mobile Device Management which is the term given to managing mobile technology devices that have been handed out for use by the company. There are five main steps that are involved and they are as follows.\
\
Provisioning- This refers to the initial company set up with the network provider\
Using- The general use policy that the user must follow in order to treat it as a work device\
Maintaining- This is to do with the proper maintenance required to keep the devices hardware and software fully operational for business use.\
Monitoring- It is imperative that the company must monitor certain devices as their use should not be abused.\
Decommissioning- This is the final stage of the devices life with the user where it is either wiped and set up for new use of it has final reached the end of its life cycle.\
\
\
After that we discussed the possible security threats than can be face using a cloud based service. A cloud based service involves using the internet to store data on instead of actual stand alone hardware that would only take up space as well as energy. I will do a brief breakdown of several threats that an cloud based service could face throughout their lifetime. The cloud could face attacks from Data breaches which are similar to the threats and attacks that traditional corporate networks face. The exact reason people target cloud servers and data stores is due to the vast amount of data that is actually stored on them as they know once they are in they have access to so much. It is important that companies are well protected against they external attacks as when they are hacked and their data goes missing they may incur a fine or criminal charges placed against them. Another threat that they may face is an internal one which is malicious insiders. These are people who work for the company or have previously worked for the company who decide to try and steal precious data or even take down the system from the inside by deleting essential bits of data. Following on from this can also bring another threat which is permanent data loss. This is essentially when someone has accessed the system they delete key data for good in such a way that it is unable to be recovered. This can also be caused by error from the employer as well if they fail to create adequate backups of all data that is stored. However the data loss can come from the user themselves because if they chose to encrypt all data before it is moved to the cloud they must not loose the key because whenever they lose the key, they lose their data. The final threat that I will describe is DoS (Denial of Service) attacks which involves flooding the the cloud with vast amounts of information and requests all in one go in an attempt to take it down and possibly expose a weak link. Although these attacks can be deadly it is possible to prevent them or report them.\
\
Next we discussed continuous data protection and how it is important to be constantly backing up data in order to prevent loss of data if an attack was to happen. Although it is possible to continuously backup data it does require a large amount of network usage. It is important to prioritise certain data in levels of back up importance. More important data should be backed up more frequently that other types of data. If this data is key to keeping the system running then it is important that it is secured first. \
\
To finish with we then looked at IP Troubleshooting which in order to start this you must check if the computer/machine you are using has TCP/IP enabled as this is important. In order to check if the computer itself has an IP assigned to it you can either use ipconfig for windows and ifconfig for mac. This will display details about the computer as well as the IP you are looking for. To check if it is working you can then use a PING which sends a small packet to a particular IP address in order to check if the network connections are intact. After this you can perform a DIG command which essential performs a DNS(Domain Name System) as another check for whether or not it is properly connected to the network. You can also TRACE ROUTE to see if the network and the intended destination are making the correct connection.\
\
Remote access protocols are used to control the establishment of connections and the transmission of data over WAN links. A public key infrastructure is a set of roles, policies and procedures needed to create, manage and distribute use, store and revoke digital certificates and manage public key encryption. \cf3 \cb4 The purpose of a PKI is to facilitate the secure electronic transfer of information for a range of network activities such as e-commerce, internet banking and confidential email. It is required for activities where simple passwords are an inadequate authentication method and more rigorous proof is required to confirm the identity of the parties involved in the communication and to validate the information being transferred. A Bring Your Own Device Policy (BYOD) essentially allows employees to bring their own devices to their places under certain levels of permission. There must be a strict policy put towards what devices are actually permitted as certain software used by the company may only certain certain types of phones/laptops/pcs. The user must agree to then establish certain levels of security on their device so that if it is lost or stolen anyone can not access vital information about the company. Another policy to implement along with the BYOD policy would be an acceptable use policy which decides what apps can be used and what websites can be accessed under this policy. It also will allow the company to monitor the user to ensure that maximum work effort is being achieved. Finally a very important point to remember is what to do whenever the employee exits the company and how the levels of access and authority will be removed from any devices that they have set up.\
\
We next looked at how we would troubleshoot problems when it came to different types of connection to the internet. The connections we looked at were cable and ASDL connection. The best way to diagnose and fix your internet connection is simply to turn it off for 10 seconds and then turn it back on again. Most of the time this fix will work but if it doesn\'92t then you may need to look at more in depth fixes to work out the problem. After this you should follow all your connections back to make sure the correct cables are connected in the correct holes. For example your ADSL connection has not come loose or even the power cable is sitting loose. You should then perform a DNS check which tells you whether it is a problem with your internet or a problem with whatever you are trying to connect to online. If the problem stills persists then you may have to connect your internet provider and make arrangements for the problem to be fixed by them. \
\
After this we learned about the steps that need to be taken in order to make sure that a computer will remain functional and in the future not come to a full system failure. It is imperative that all updates for the OS, the security software and any other programs are installed. Updates bring patches that allow the security of the system to constantly maintained so hard drives etc cannot be infected and ruined over time. After all these have been done it is important to make sure that the insides of your computer are properly cleaned using either compressed air or if the situation is very bad a selection of anti static cleaning wipes and solutions. Dust can lie on fans and prevent them from working to maximum effectiveness which over time will cause your computer to work harder and overheat. After this we then discussed why a hard drive should be partitioned and formatted and what is the main reasoning behind this. Disk partitioning is separating one physical hard drive into multiple independent volumes. \cf5 \cb1 Disk partitioning or disk slicing is the creation of one or more regions on a hard disk or other secondary storage, so that an operating system can manage information in each region separately. Partitioning is typically the first of preparing a newly manufactured disk before any files or directories have been created. For example if we you were to install a new operating system such as ubuntu it would be necessary to partition and format the hard drive as it will be a fresh new start. Disk formatting is basically the second part of the process, making the data storage deice visible to an operating system.\
\
Finally we learnt about the network file system (NFS) which is a client/server application that lets a computer user view and optionally store and update files on a remote computer as though they were on the users own computer. The NFS protocol is one of several distributed file system standards for network attached storage. NFS allows the user or system administrator to mount all or a portion of a file system on a server. This is split into several layers which is the application layer, the transport layer, the internet layer and the link layer. \cf2 \
 \
}