{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15180\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Encryption is the most effective way to achieve data security. To read an encrypted file, you must have access to a secret key or password that enables you to decrypt it. Unencrypted data is called plain text ; encrypted data is referred to as cipher text. The first major type is Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) which intention was to provide data confidentiality comparable to that or a traditional wired network. Wifi Protected Access (WPA) and Wifi Protected Access 2 (WPA2) are both security protocols and security certification programs developed by the WiFi alliance to secure wireless computer networks. In WPA there is a 256 bit key while WPA2 uses AES encryption. \
\
Next we discussed ways that authentication, digital certificates, encryption and firewalls will provide necessary web security. Authentication allows access control of users systems located on the web. The user will be prompted to enter some form of id or even a username or password. Digital certificates allow for identification of entities on the web. Encryption allows to send data securely over the web using a key in order to convert it to something readable for the user. Finally firewalls prevent malicious things from gaining access to your computer as they are stopped and checked first.\
\
After this we looked at and discussed how encryption helps enforce, data confidentiality, data integrity and non repudiation to secure end users transactions. The idea of encryption is that it only allows the intended recipient to read what the message says. Encryption enforces integrity when it uses a hash that corresponds to the data being sent and therefore if the data was altered would not be able to decrypt successfully. It is very important that once the user receives the key that they do not lose the key as it is the only thing that is able to decrypt their work. After this we discussed the difference between viruses and WORMS. A virus is a piece of code that can copy itself  and make its way along with a file to destroy the rest of a system.  A worm is a lone piece of malware that replicates itself in order to spread among other computers. It uses the computer network to travel along where as a virus needs to attach itself to a program. Once we distinguished the difference we then talked about how we would go about preventing a virus from getting on the system in the first place. Regular updates of all anti virus systems and the OS will help make sure that all the necessary patches are there to stop these viruses and WORMs. A major way to stay safe online is to use common sense when opening files and be very vigilant when connecting to open or free wifi networks as these can be easily manipulated. 
\f1 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Updates and patches are software file or bits of code that contains fixes for problems found by other users or the software developer. Installing an update fixes the code and prevents the problems re-occurring. \
\
Once we worked out how to spot and stop a virus we then worked out what to do whenever a virus is either in your system or you suspect one may be in your system. Once you notice a virus it is very important  to completely remove yourself from the network to prevent it from spreading itself across the network to other devices and possibly corrupting your entire system. After this you may run an anti virus scan  and once they have been isolated remove them from the system. If back ups have not been performed by the anti virus system then it is important to back up all essential files. \
\
After this we then discussed what to do if you received an unexpected email that you do not know what to do with. If the email is from someone you know then you should contact them in reference to it to see whether they meant to sent it or not and once they confirm this you may pass it through your security software to make sure it is safe. If the email is not safe you should report it as a scam or whatever is necessary and then delete the email from your email server. It is very important that you do not open the email as even for a second you can infected your computer with viruses that can destroy the computer from the inside without you even knowing. After this we worked out what to do if an attack has been detected towards the system. Whenever an attack has been first suspected it is important to make sure that you find out where the attack is coming from an isolate the port where the network cable is connected to. Inform your ISP so they can assist you in detection and prevention of any further attacks that may happen towards your system. You should work out where the attack has come from and see whether it is an internal attack or if it is a foreign attack coming from outside the company. Make sure to back up data the rest of the data in your system in case it gets lost. Once the system is safe you can refer to the back ups to populate all the information that was lost. \
\
Spyware is software installed on a computing device without the end users knowledge. Such software is controversial because even though it is sometimes installed for simple monitoring reasons, it can violate the end users privacy and has the potential to be abused. This type of software is used to monitor employees to see what kind of websites and apps they are visiting and using. This could be very important to a business as it is important to keep work productivity at a high and reducing slacking off. However this kind of software can be used for malicious intent where a third party app can be hidden embedded in the phone and used the camera and microphone to record the users movements etc as well as record their phone calls and their overall generally phone use. After this we looked at privacy concerns in relation to using the internet. This can come in many forms such as online trolls, malicious ads, or third party embedded software. Now a days it is all about staying safe on the internet and using common sense. It is important to make sure that you do not go onto sites that look like they may be dangerous and filled with viruses so it is important to only use websites that are not dangerous and secure. If they look like they are not safe then you may use certain websites to check the authentication of the site. There may be loads of dangerous adverts and viruses placed within web pages so you should not click on any ads and make sure you should be vary of what is on the site.\
\
After this we learnt about copyright issues. \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Copyright is a legal right created by the law of a country that grants the creator of an original work exclusive rights for its use and distribution. This is usually only for a limited time. The exclusive rights are not absolute but limited by limitations and exceptions to copyright law, including fair use.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  It is important whenever you are designing a website that if you use anything from across the internet that you get permission from the creator of the content if it is covered by copyright law. However if you do decide to use it you can make you\'92re own but base it on the underlying idea instead of the original expression. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data encryption refers to the process of transforming electronic information into a scrambled form that can only be read by someone who knows how to translate the code. Companies often communicate with each other regarding sensitive business operations therefore it is important to make sure that if anyone manages to intercept these messages it is important to make sure they are secure. }