{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red13\green16\blue19;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c5882\c7843\c9804;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18800\viewh11600\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 A news feed is very similar to a blog in the way that it has a title, an author, headers, time and date except on a news feed there is the addition of sources and links in which refer to the RSS feed or to where the information came from. The url will be displayed in the rss feed showing where it is being updated from. The big difference between categories and folksonomies is that one is formal and one is quite informal. A folksonomoy is a crowd driven method of categorisation of information. They use loosely structure tags for example #computer can be loosely used to search for everything that people have added that tag to. Categories is the more formal method of classification. For example this would formally structure that cheddar is a sub class of cheese. There are lots of basic server name roles. The most common of which is .com which describes a company. The .org is an organisation. The .edu is basically an educational institution. Another example of a top level domain name is also .gov which defines a national and state government agency. For the UK it would be followed by a second level domain name of .uk. The whole of domain name server roles can be split into a hierarchal structure. This is split off into the top level, secondary level and a sub-domain which is all connected one after another. Top domains are the very top level of the DNS hierarchy and are the first step in resolution of various domains which i mention above. Second level domains are essentialy domains that belong to the organisation or the country that has registered them. For example in the UK we would use .uk as the second level domain. Finally comes the sub-domain \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
which is a domain that an organization's DNS administrator created to make managing the DNS simpler or at least more logical.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  For example this can be the dns administrator for a university creating sub domains for each of the different departments in the university. }